# Assignments 003.5.1 Console Classes 1

For all of these exercises, it is recommended to:
- Open GitHub Desktop Application
- Select your Assignment Repository (named `gp21-21-1004-csharp-oop-rpg-[yourusername]`)
- Then, from the Menu Bar in GitHub Desktop, select `Repository` > `Open in Terminal` (or `Open in Command Prompt`)
- Switch to the `projects`-directory using `cd projects`
- Create a Project using `dotnet new console -o ProjectName` (replace the Project Name with the name given by each Exercise)
- Add a `.gitignore` to the folder of the newly created Project:
  - First, navigate to the new folder: `cd [ProjectName]`
  - Then, use `dotnet new gitignore`
  - Do NOT commit any files in `/bin/` or `/obj/`, please!
- Open the Project in the IDE of your choice. Remember: Open the `.csproj` file!!
- Then follow the instructions of the exercise

## 1 - Object-Oriented Programming:
[Read the Slides on Object-Oriented Programming](../slides/003.5-classes.md#1-object-oriented-programming)
### Instructions
- Create a Console Project named `P1ObjectOrientedProgramming`
- You will use this project throughout these exercises
- Small exercise for warm-up:
  - Create an array of three strings, named `names`
  - Ask the user for three names. 
    - Use a for-loop, to do so.
    - Put each name into one slot of the Array.
  - Now, print all three names to the console.
    - But put them all in one line.
    - Separated by comma.
    - Check out the Sample Outout:

### Sample
```
Output:Give me a name.
Input:Mike
Output:Give me a name.
Input:Eva
Output:Give me a name.
Input:Max
Output:Mike,Eva,Max
```

## 4 - Classes
[Read the Slides on Classes & Objects](../slides/003.5-classes.md#4-classes--objects)
### Instructions
- Create a Console Project named `P2Classes`
- Create 3 Classes:
  - `Person`
  - `Animal`
  - `Car`
- For each of these classes:
  - Create one instance (object) of the class assign each to a variable
  - Use `Console.WriteLine` and pass that instance (object) into the method

### Sample
```
Output:Person
Output:Animal
Output:Car
```

## 5 - Class Members:
[Read the Slides on Class Members](../slides/003.5-classes.md#5-class-members)
### Instructions
- Continue Working on `P2Classes`
- Extend the class `Person`:
  - Give it a field of type `string` with the name `name`
  - Give it a method named `IntroduceYourself()`
    - The method should print "Hello, my name is " and the `name` of the Person to the console
- Create an Array of three `Person`, name it `persons`
- Ask the user for three names. 
  - Use a for-loop, to do so.
  - Put each name into one slot of the Person-Array's `name`
- Now, call `IntroduceYourself()` on each person of the Array

### Sample
```
[...](Output from Previous Exercises)
Output:Give me a name.
Input:Mike
Output:Give me a name.
Input:Eva
Output:Give me a name.
Input:Max
Output:Hello, my name is Mike
Output:Hello, my name is Eva
Output:Hello, my name is Max
```

## 6 - Static Class Members:
[Read the Slides on Static Class Members](../slides/003.5-classes.md#6-static-class-members)
### Instructions
- Create a Console Project named `P4StaticClassMembers`
- Create a `static` class named `SuperMath`
- In that claas, create a `static` method named `Lerp`
  - Tt takes three arguments:
    - `from` of type `float`
    - `to` of type `float`
    - `t` of type `float`
  - It returns one value of type `float`:
    - It returns the result of the formula `from + (to - from)*t`
- This is a very useful method to make things interpolate between two values
- Either over time, or in a certain amount
- You will use it A LOT during game development!
- Check out the Samples to see it in action!

### Sample
```
Output:Lerp from 0 to 100 with t(0):0
Output:Lerp from 0 to 100 with t(0.1):10
Output:Lerp from 0 to 100 with t(0.3):30.000002
Output:Lerp from 0 to 100 with t(0.7):70
Output:Lerp from 0 to 100 with t(1.0):100
Output:Lerp from 0 to 100 with t(1.3):130
Output:Lerp from 100 to 200 with t(0):100
Output:Lerp from 100 to 200 with t(0.1):110
Output:Lerp from 100 to 200 with t(0.3):130
Output:Lerp from 100 to 200 with t(0.7):170
Output:Lerp from 100 to 200 with t(1.0):200
Output:Lerp from 100 to 200 with t(1.3):230
Output:Lerp from 200 to -100 with t(0):200
Output:Lerp from 200 to -100 with t(0.1):170
Output:Lerp from 200 to -100 with t(0.3):110
Output:Lerp from 200 to -100 with t(0.7):-10
Output:Lerp from 200 to -100 with t(1.0):-100
Output:Lerp from 200 to -100 with t(1.3):-190
```

## 7 - Constructor:
[Read the Slides on Constructor](../slides/003.5-classes.md#7-constructor)
### Goal
- To create a Unit class that has an ID and a Name.
- To create a Method that can give us details about a Unit's Status.
- Later, this Unit will serve as our Combat Target in our RPG.
### Instructions
- Create a Console Project named `RPG`
- Create a class named `Unit`
- Add a field to the Class of type `string` named `name`
- Add a Contructor to the Class
  - The Contructor requires an argument of type `string` named `name`
  - Assign the value of `name` to the field `name` (use `this.` to reference the field)  
- Add a field of type `int` named `id` to the Class
- Add a static field of type `int` named `nextId` to the Class
  - static fields are shared acros all Class instances
- In the Constructor, assign the vaalue of `nextId` to the field `id` of the class
- After that, increase `nextId` by 1
  - this ensures, that the next unit gets a higher id than the previous one
- Add a method named `ReportStatus` to the Class
  - It reports the unit's status to the User by printing:
  - `Unit #2: Zombie`
    - where 2 needs to be replaced by the unit's `id`
    - and Zombie needs to be replaced by the unit's `name`
- Create three instances of a `Unit` with names of your choice
- Call `ReportStatus` at the end of the Constructor!
  - Make sure, that this Method call stays at the bottom of the constructor at all times!
  - I think it's best to put a comment there right away: `// Make sure, that this is the last line of the constructor:`

### Sample
```
Output:Unit #0: Zombie
Output:Unit #1: Skeleton
Output:Unit #2: Necromancer
```

## 8 - Finalizer:
[Read the Slides on Finalizer](../slides/003.5-classes.md#8-finalizer)
### Goal
- Add a method to our Game that lets us know, if a Unit dies.
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Add a Finalizer to the Unit Class
- Make it say print Unit #2: Zombie got finalized." to the Console.
- You can quickly test it using following code sample:
```cs
for(int i = 0; i < 2; i++){
  Unit unit = new Unit("LivingHand");
  GC.Collect();
}
```
- But please remove it again afterwards, we're trying to make a "real" game here.
- And this feature will pop back up again later.

### Sample
Note: actually, no new output appears, but while you put the sample code above in your code, this should pop up:
```
[...](previous Output)
Output:Unit #3: LivingHand
Output:Unit #4: LivingHand
Output:Unit #3: LivingHand got finalized.
```

## 9 - Access Modifiers:
[Read the Slides on Access Modifiers](../slides/003.5-classes.md#9-access-modifiers)
### Goal
- Add Health and MaxHealth to our Unit.
- Make sure, that Health can never be less than 0 or more than MaxHealth.
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Add two new fields to the `Unit` Class. Both fields should NOT be accessible from outside the class!
  - `maxHealth` of type `int`
  - `health` of type `int`
- Require `maxHealth` as an argument in the constructor
  - This phrasing describes two steps:
  - Adding the parameter to the constructor's parameter list
  - Assigning the passed value to the class's field in the constructor body
- In the Constructor, set `health` to the same value as `maxHealth`, too
- Modify `ReportStatus`, to show not only the Id and Name, but also Health and MaxHealth:
  - `Unit #27: Zombie - 127/200 Health`
  - `27` is the `id`
  - `Zombie` is the `name`
  - `127` is the `health`
  - `200` is the `maxHealth`
- Create a public Method named `SetHealth` to the `Unit`-class.
  - The method takes one argument: `newHealth` of type `int`
  - It then sets the Unit's `health` to the value of `newHealth`
  - It als ensures, that the new `health` is not smaller than `0` or greater than `maxHealth`
  - It then calls `ReportStatus` to print the new Status to the Console
- Test the functionality by:
  - Creating a Unit with `name` `Leet` and `maxHealth` 1337
  - Asking the User 3 times, to what value he wants to change the Unit's health
  - Assign the given value each time to the Unit's `SetHealth`-Method:

### Sample
```
[...](previous Output)
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 1337/1337 Health
Output:What do you want Leet's Health to be?
Input:1234
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 1234/1337 Health
Output:What do you want Leet's Health to be?
Input:-100
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 0/1337 Health
Output:What do you want Leet's Health to be?
Input:2000
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 1337/1337 Health
```

## 11 - Properties:
[Read the Slides on Properties](../slides/003.5-classes.md#11-properties)
### Goal
- Improve our Code's Readability a bit.
- Change the Game to have a Game Loop that runs as long as the Spawned Unit is alive.
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Replace the Method `SetHealth` with a public Property named `Health` of type `int`
  - The same logic that happened in `SetHealth` before, should now happen in that propperty's `set`
  - Add a `get` to the Property, which returns the current value of the `health`-field
- Change the Game-Loop:
  - Don't ask the user 3 times for Leet's new Health
  - But instead ask him for as long as Leet's Health is greater than zero

### Sample
```
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 1337/1337 Health
Output:What do you want Leet's Health to be?
Input:1234
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 1234/1337 Health
Output:What do you want Leet's Health to be?
Input:2000
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 1337/1337 Health
Output:What do you want Leet's Health to be?
Input:-100
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 0/1337 Health
```

## 11.1 - Properties:
### Goal
- Right now, you can change our Unit's `name` at any time.
- Try it: Try adding: `Unit test = new Unit("Abc", 100); test.name = "Def";`
- This is not behaviour that we want. Let's change that.
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Change the field `name` to be a Property named `Name` which only has a `get`, but no `set`
  - You can still assign the value in the constructor, but nowhere else anymore

### Sample
Adding this code should not compile anymore:
```cs
Console.WriteLine("Temporary, please remove from final Game!");
Unit test = new Unit("Abc", 100); 
test.Name = "Def";
```
But this one should compile:
```cs
Console.WriteLine("Temporary, please remove from final Game!");
Unit test = new Unit("Abc", 100); 
Console.WriteLine(test.Name);
```

```
Output:Abc
```

## 11.2 - Properties:
### Goal
- Clean Up our Code a bit more, to improve Readability.
- When we are checking in the Game Loop, whether the Unit's health is still > 0
- Then, what are we actually checking?
- Whether the Unit is alive or dead
- Let's have our code express this in a nice way!
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Add a property named `IsAlive` of type `bool` to the `Unit` Class
  - It should have a `get` that returns `true`, if `health` is greater than zero
  - And `false` in any other case
- In the Game Loop, use this property instead of reading the Health!
- You can Remove the `Health` Property's `get` now!

### Sample
Adding this code should not compile anymore:
```cs
Console.WriteLine("Temporary, please remove from final Game!");
Unit test = new Unit("Abc", 100); 
Console.WriteLine(test.Health);
```
But this one should compile:
```cs
Console.WriteLine("Temporary, please remove from final Game!");
Unit test = new Unit("Abc", 100); 
test.Health = 500;
```

## 11.3 - Properties:
### Goal
- Prepare our Game for Enemy Attacks by changing the Game 
  - From setting the Health directly from 100 to 80
  - To instead say, that we want to deal 20 damage
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Make the `set` on `Health` private, so no other class can adjust the value directly anymore
- Introduce a `public` method named `Damage`
  - It returns nothing
  - It takes a parameter named `value` of type `int`
  - It then subtracts `value` from our current `Health` and assigns it to `Health`
- Change the Game Loop, so it does
  - Not ask anymore, what we want Leet's Health to be
  - But instead asks, how much damage we want to deal
  - And then calls the `Damage`-Method with that value

### Sample
```
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 1337/1337 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Leet?
Input:12
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 1325/1337 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Leet?
Input:-200
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 1337/1337 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Leet?
Input:2000
Output:Unit #3: Leet - 0/1337 Health
```

## 12 - Inheritance:
### Goal
- Introduce a new Unit: The Necromancer
  - His name is `"Necromancer"`
  - His `maxHealth` is 200
  - He has a special ability: The first time he dies, he resurrects and his `Health` is set back to 50% of his `maxHealth` again!
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Introduce a new class, called `Necromancer` that inherits from `Unit`
  - Add a parameter-less constructor that calls the base-constructor with the proper values
  - Introduce a `bool`-field named `hasResurrected`, so the can keep track on whether the `Necromancer` has died already.
  - Change the `Unit`'s `maxHealth`-field to be a `protected` Property named `MaxHealth` with a `private` Setter.
  - Make the `Damage`-Method of the `Unit`-class `virtual`
  - `override` the `Damage`-Method in the `Necromancer` class
    - Invoke the `base`-Method, to make sure, that the regular damage-dealing still works
    - After that, check, whether the `Necromancer`'s `Health` is zero or less and that he has NOT resurrected, yet
    - If so: flag `hasResurrected` to be` true`, and set his Health to 50% of `maxHealth` again.
- Update the Game Loop, so a `Necromancer` is spawned instead of `Leet`

### Sample
```
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 200/200 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Necromancer?
Input:199
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 1/200 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Necromancer?
Input:2
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 0/200 Health
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 100/200 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Necromancer?
Input:100
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 0/200 Health
```

## 12.1 - Inheritance:
### Goal
- Clean Up our Code by moving the `Resurrect`-Logic to its own Method.
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Take the code that ressurects the `Necromancer` (set the health to 50% and change the flag)
  - And move it to its own `private` Method named `Resurrect`
  - Call this Method from within the `Necromancer`'s `Damage`-Method instead of the two lines of code that currently do so

## 12.2 - Inheritance:
### Goal
- Clean Up our Code by renaming the `Damage`-Method
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Rename the `Damage`-Method to `TakeDamage`.
- Methods should always describe an Action (something that can be done)
- And `Damage` can either be a Verb (to damage) or a Noun (the damage)
- `TakeDamage` more specifically describes, what the method does

## 12.3 - Inheritance:
### Goal
- Clean Up our Code by using another Property instead of checking for the `Health` directly in `NecroMancers`'s `TakeDamage`-Method.
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Introduce a new Property `IsDead` of type `bool` to the `Unit`
  - Have it return `true`, if the `Unit` is not `IsAlive` and `false`, if the unit `IsAlive`

## 13 - PolyMorphism:
### Goal
- Make random Units spawn 3 times in a row.
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Update the Game Loop, so randomly, either a `Unit` or a `Necromancer` is spawned.
- After the `Unit` or `Necromancer` dies, a new one is spawned.
- Until a total of three monsters have been killed.
- Tip: This should be much easier, if you replace your code, whereever it says:
```cs
Necromancer necromancer = new Necromancer();
```
with:
```cs
Unit unit = SpawnNewUnit();
```

And then have a method like this:
```cs
static Unit SpawnNewUnit(){
   // get random number between 0 and 1
   if(number == 0){
      return new Necromancer();
   }
   if(number == 1){
      return new...
   }
}
```

### Sample
```
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 200/200 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Necromancer?
Input:199
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 1/200 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Necromancer?
Input:2
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 0/200 Health
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 100/200 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Necromancer?
Input:100
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 0/200 Health
Output:Unit #4: Unit - 250/250 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Unit?
Input:250
Output:Unit #4: Unit - 0/250 Health
Output:Unit #5: Unit - 250/250 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Unit?
Input:250
Output:Unit #5: Unit - 0/250 Health
Output:Game Over.
```

## 13.1 - PolyMorphism:
### Goal
- Make the game more expressive by adding additional Messages to the Console.
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Write `Unit #3: Necromancer has spawned!` when a new Unit is spawned.
- Write `Unit #3: Necromancer has come back from the dead!` when a Necromancer has resurrected.
- Write `Unit #3: Necromancer has died!` when a new Unit is killed.

### Sample
```
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer has spawned!
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 200/200 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Necromancer?
Input:199
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 1/200 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Necromancer?
Input:2
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 0/200 Health
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer has died!
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer Has come back from the dead!
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 100/200 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Necromancer?
Input:100
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer - 0/200 Health
Output:Unit #3: Necromancer has died!
Output:Unit #4: Unit has spawned!
Output:Unit #4: Unit - 250/250 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Unit?
Input:250
Output:Unit #4: Unit - 0/250 Health
Output:Unit #4: Unit has died!
Output:Unit #5: Unit has spawned!
Output:Unit #5: Unit - 250/250 Health
Output:How much damage do you want to deal to Unit?
Input:250
Output:Unit #5: Unit - 0/250 Health
Output:Unit #5: Unit has died!
Output:Game Over.
```

## 14 - Abstraction:
### Goal
- Make `Unit` to be a base-class, which we cannot instantiate by itself anymore.
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Make the `Unit`-class `abstract` by using the `abstract`-keyword before the `class`-keyword
- Adjust the `SpawnNewUnit`-Method, so it can not spawn `Unit` anymore, only `Necromancer`

## 14.1 - Abstraction:
### Goal
- Implement more enemies: `Skeleton`, `Hedgehog`, `Bomb`
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- The `Skeleton` inherits from `Unit`, has 250 Health, the name `"Skeleton"`
- The `Hedgehog` inherits from `Unit`, has 200 Health, the name `Hedgehog` and this Special ability:
  - When hit, he goes into Defense Mode for 2 Rounds
    - Print `Unit #3: Hedgehog went into Defense Mode!`
  - After 2 rounds, he stops being in Defense Mode
    - Print `Unit #3: Hedgehog stopped being into Defense Mode!`
  - While in Defense Mode, the `Hedgehog` does not take any Damage from the Player
    - Print `Unit #3: Hedgehog was hit while in Defense Mode!`
- The `Bomb` inherits from `Unit`, has 500 Health, the name `Bomb` and this Special Ability:
  - It explodes after 5 Rounds
  - When exploding, the `Bomb`'s `Health` is set to 0
    - Print `Unit #3: Bomb has exploded!`
- Add these three new monsters to your `SpawnNewUnit`-Method
  - extend the Random Number to give results between 0 and 2
  - And map each of these numbers to a `Unit` that is then created

## 14.2 - Abstraction:
### Goal
- Implement the `Hero` as a class, so the Player can play (and die) himself, too!
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- The `Hero` inherits from `Unit`, has 1000 Health and the name `Hero`
- Create a `Hero` when the Game Starts, before the first Monster is spawned.
- The `Hero` takes 89 Damage each round.
- When the `Hero` `IsDead`, the Game is Over.
  - Print `Game Over. You Lose.`
- If the three monsters were killed before the `Hero` `IsDead`
  - Print `Game Over. You Win.`

## 14.3 - Abstraction:
### Goal
- Implement real Attacks!
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
First, let's make sure that every unit has an `Power`-Property, so we know, how much damage they can deal:
- Add a read-only (only `get;`) Property `Power` of type `int` to the `Unit`-class.
- Require a new parameter in the `Unit`'s constructor: `power` of type `int`
  - Assign the `power`-argument's value to the `Unit`s `Power`-Property
Now, let's make sure, that this `power`-argument is provided with all `Unit`s:
- The `Hero` has 66 `power`
- The `Skeleton` has 46 `power`
- The `Necromancer` has 32 `power`
- The `Bomb` has 0 `power`
- The `Hedgehog` has 27 `power`
Now, let's add an `Attack`-Method to the `Unit`, which allows a `Unit` to Attack any other `Unit`
- Add a new Method with no return type to the `Unit` class named `Attack`
  - `Attack` takes one parameter named `target` of type `Unit` - this will be the `Unit` that we want to attack.
  - Within the `Attack`-Method, we should call `TakeDamage` on the `target`-`Unit` and pass our own `Power` as an argument.
Now, let's first Remove the Part in our Game Loop, where we ask the Player, how much Damage he wants to deal and replace it with the following Code-Sample:
```cs
Console.WriteLine("The fight continues... (Press any key.)");
Console.ReadKey();
hero.Attack(monster);
monster.Attack(hero);
```

## 15 - Composition:
### Goal
- Remove the `Power`-Property from the `Unit`-Class and replace it with a `Weapon`-Property.
### Instructions
- Continue working on the Project `RPG`
- Introduce a new `abstract` class `Weapon`
  - Weapon has a read-only Propery named `Power` of type `int`
  - And a Constructor that requires a Parameter named `power` of type `int`, which is then assigned to the `Power`-Property
- Introduce the following Weapons:
  - `TrainingWeapon` with 66 `power`
  - `BoneSword` with 46 `power`
  - `CursedStaff` with 32 `power`
  - `Unarmed` with 0 `power`
  - `Spike` with 27 `power`
- Change the `Unit`-constructor to not require `power` of type `int` anymore
- But instead require a `weapon` of type `Weapon`
- Also, remove the `Power`-Property of type `int` from the `Unit`
- And add a `Weapon`-Property of type `Weapon` to the `Unit` instead
- Assign the `weapon` passed to the `Unit`-constructor to the `Unit`'s `Weapon`-Property
- Assign the following `Weapon`s in the different classes' constructors:
  - `Hero`: `new TrainingWeapon()`
  - `Skeleton`: `new BoneSword()`
  - `Necromancer`: `new CursedStaff()`
  - `Bomb`: `new Unarmed()`
  - `Hedgehog`: `new Spike()`
- Modify the `Attack`-Method, so it does not pass `Power` into the `TakeDamage`-Method, but `Weapon.Power` instead.
- Add a new Message to Attacks that looks like this:
`Unit #3: Hero uses TrainingWeapon to attack Unit #4: Necromancer for 66 Damage.`
